# CS6300 SDP Fall 2017 - Assignment 5: Software Design
by Saad Khan (```skhan315@gatech.edu```)

# Word Scrabble Game

## Overview

A mixture of both data structures (lists) and variables (string, int, boolean) were utilized as part of the design. Main focus was to keep the design simple but at the same time incorporating all what was needed as per the requirements.

## Requirements

### 1. When starting the application, a user may choose to either create a new player or log in.  For simplicity, authentication is optional.  A (unique) username will be sufficient for logging in.

**Response:** The starting of the application can be realized as being represented by User GUI, which could give 2 options to the user (new player, login) along with an empty text box to put in the user's username. If the user is an existing player, he/she would login otherwise he/she would go onto create a new player profile.

### 2. After logging in, the application shall allow players to 

### (1) create a word scramble,

### (2) choose and solve word scrambles,

### (3) see statistics on their created and solved word scrambles, and

### (4) view the player statistics.

**Response:** All of the above functionalities will be addressed within the player class. The **createWordScramble()** method will address '(1) create a word scramble'. The **chooseWordScramble()** method will address '(2) choose and solve word scrambles' and present the player with a list of word scrambles to pick and choose from. The **viewScrambleStatistics()** method will take care of the scramble statistics and will return the scramble stats for that particular player. Similarly, **viewPlayerStatistics()** method will take care of the player statistics and will return the personal player stats for that particular player.

### 3. The application shall maintain an underlying database to save persistent information across runs (e.g., word scrambles, player information, statistics).

**Response:** The functionality of the database has been depicted by a database black box which will handle the requests generated by the the new/existing player, word scrambles, statistics and will consult the external web service (discussed in requirment #4) in order to address those requests.

### 4. Word scrambles and statistics will be shared with other instances of the application. An external web service utility will be used by the application to communicate with a central server to:

### a. Add a player and ensure that their username is unique.

### b. Send new word scrambles and receive a unique identifier for them.

### c. Retrieve the list of scrambles, together with information on which player created each of them. 

### d. Report a solved scramble.

### e. Retrieve the list of players and the scrambles each have solved.

### You should represent this utility as a utility class that (1) is called "ExternalWebService", (2) is connected to the classes in the system that use it, and (3) explicitly list relevant methods used by those classes. This class is provided by the system, so it should only contain what is specified here. You do not need to include any aspect of the server in your design besides this utility class.

**Response:** The external web service will address all the above mentioned tasks where the **addPlayer()** method will add a new player based on what is provided in the 'New Player' class such as first name, last name, username, etc. When a new word scramble will be created, the **sendWordScramble()** method will be utilized to receive the unique identifier for that particular word scramble. **retrieveScrambleRecords()** method will be utilized to fetch the word scramble information along with the creator's information. In this case, scrambles can be considered as a list with uniqueIDs along with associated unique username for the creator of that word scramble. For reporting if a particular word scramble has been solved, **solvedWordScrambles(string <uniqueID>)** method will be utilized with the passing parameter as the 'uniqueID' for that word scramble. In the case, where player records are to be retrieved, **retrievePlayersRecords()** method will be used to extract the list of players and the word scrambles they have solved.

### 5. When creating a new player, a user will:

### a. Enter the player’s first name.

### b. Enter the player’s last name.

### c. Enter the player’s desired username.

### d. Enter the player’s email.  

### e. Save the information.

### f. Receive the returned username, with possibly a number appended to it to ensure that it is unique.

**Response:** When creatin a new player, vital information such as first name, last name, email, username will be passed onto the 'New Player' section and information will be saved onto the database. The database, in conjunction with the external web service will reply back with a unique username. How a unique username will be generated as mentioned above in **point f** above, is not a design requirement rather an implementation requirement and is not addressed here.  

### 6. To add a word scramble, the player will:

### a. Enter a phrase (not scrambled).

### b. Enter a clue. 

### c. View the phrase scrambled by the system. If the player does not like the result, they may choose for the system to re-scramble it until they are satisfied.

### d. Accept the results or return to previous steps.

### e. View the returned unique identifier for the word scramble. The scramble may not be further edited after this point.

**Response:** Adding a word scramble is realized by utilizing a helper class **createWordScramble**. This class will take as inputs, the non-scrambled phrase, its clue and help the user generate appropriate scrambled phrase using the **viewScrambledPhrase()** method. Once the user is satisfied with the scrambled word on accepting, the user will then be able to view the 'uniqueID' now associated with that word scramble. 

### 7. A scramble shall only mix up alphabetic characters, keeping each word together. Words are contiguous sequences of alphabetic characters separated by one or more non-alphabetic characters.

**Response:** This requirement pertains to the implementation level details and is not addressed as part of this design document.

### 8. All other characters and spacing will remain as they originally are.

### ```Example: The cat is loud :-). -> Het atc si ulod :-).```

**Response:** This is also an implementation level requirement and is not addressed as part of this design document.

### 9. When solving word scrambles, a player will:

### a. View the list of unsolved word scrambles, by identifier, with any in progress scrambles marked and shown first.

### b. Choose one word scramble to work on.

### c. View the scramble.

### d. Enter the letters in a different order to try to solve the scramble.

### e. Submit a solution.

### f. View whether it was correct.

### g. Return either to the puzzle, if wrong, or to the list, if correct.

**Response:** In order to solve an existing word scramble, a helper class **solveWordScramble** will be used which will help the user to view the list of unsolved word scrambles via the **viewUnsolvedScrambles()** method. Once the user has chosen the scramble to solve 'phrase_scramble', the user can provide the solution to that scrambled word 'solution' in form of a string by passing it to the **solveWordScramble(string<solution>)** method, which will respond as true if the solution is correct and false otherwise.


### 10. A player may exit any scramble in progress at any time and return to it later.  The last state of the puzzle will be preserved.

**Response:** To address this requirement, a method **saveGameProgess()** is included as part of the **solveWordScramble** class which will save the progress to a particular scramble for a particular user.

### 11. The scramble statistics shall list all scrambles with

### (1) their unique identifier,

### (2) information on whether they were solved or created by the player, and

### (3) the number of times any player has solved them. This list shall be sorted by decreasing number of solutions.

**Response:** 

### 12. The player statistics will list players’ first names and last names, with

### (1) the number of scrambles that the player has solved,

### (2) the number of new scrambles created, and

### (3) the average number of times that the scrambles they created have been solved by other players.  It will be sorted by decreasing number of scrambles that the player has solved.

**Response:** 

### 13. The User Interface (UI) shall be intuitive and responsive.

**Response:** User interface intuitiveness and responsiveness is an implementation level detail so is not discussed here as part of the design.
